- [Instructor] The sidecar pattern is used
to offload processing of some kind
to a separate module.
With the sidecar pattern,
you deploy the sidecar as a module associated
with every applicable microservice
in your architecture in order to offload the processing
through a single deployment.
The sidecar pattern is more about removing repetitive code
across services than anything else.
The reason that it is helpful
in a microservices architecture
is things like logging, monitoring
and network services can be offloaded
to a separate module.
So essentially, the problem we are solving
is repeating code paths
that don't have to be accomplished through repeating code.
The details of design is actually very straightforward.
You start with the process itself.
The key here is that you need
to write the module specific enough
for your immediate needs
while being generic enough
for other parts of your system.
This really is the hardest part of sidecars
because you have to be willing to get it wrong
before you get it right.
Once the design is in place,
you simply write your code.
Most runtimes that you would use
with a microservices architecture
have sidecar processes or strategies depending
on how they containerize or provide access
to that runtime.
The next step is simply to schedule your sidecar
to deploy with the appropriate service.
Most of the time, this is accomplished
via the parent service manifest or service definition.
Now, the sidecar's a relatively easy pattern
but at this point,
once you deploy it, the functionality should just appear.
You never have to actually modify the code
of your main service application
and that's really where the power is
because as we implement one piece
of functionality, if that piece of functionality now needs
to live somewhere else,
we simply upload the sidecar with that element
and that it will inherit that functionality.
So let's take a look here at a quick visualization
of the sidecar pattern itself.
We're going to start with three microservices sitting
in our visual network.
Now, we add our first sidecar
and in this case, it's the logging sidecar,
to each service.
Note how the representation here
is very focused on containerized deployments
as this is usually how sidecars work.
We actually are deploying these process elements,
these sidecar elements to the parent process itself.
But we're getting the benefits of the sidecar everywhere
while not writing code in each service.
Now, we're going to go ahead and add another sidecar.
This time, a monitoring one.
Again, applying it to each service
and once again, we are uploading it
as part of the parent service
when we do the deployment.
So all of these run within a single process
though they are very distinct modules.
Now, the last step
is that we're going to add a security sidecar
but this time, we're only going to apply it
to one of our services.
And this is really the power of sidecars.
You pick and choose where you want
to apply the functionality
and simply apply it.
As long as your sidecar is written generic enough,
you can apply it anywhere and that service
will automatically inherit that functionality
through a single process
and that's what we want to achieve
because now as I scale each one of these services,
the sidecars come along for the ride for free
and we inherit all that functionality once again.